hi I'm parlor gara with the audi club
and we're here with Johnny res chief
technical instructor at the Audi Academy
in ontario california and johnny is
going to take us to the brand new a4 and
show some of the great new features and
technology of this amazing car one of
the new things with the v6 it's still a
3.2 one of the newest things we have out
is the variable cam timing this is a
camshaft and you can see here it's not
only just variable cam timing but it's
also variable lift you can see here
there are two different profiles of cam
lobes when you start out from idle up to
about 4,000 rpm it's on a small lobe
once you go over four thousand rpms
switches to the larger lobe the larger
low more duration or air more power at
top in so and then when you come back to
idle you have smaller lobe less duration
for better idle characters down so
there's this technology shirt on any
other Audi problem yes it is actually
with the v8 there's another engine we
have it's the the four cylinder which is
on that rack over there but it's on the
exhaust side they're using it here on
this engine we're using it on the intake
side on that engine we're using it on
the exhaust site to help control
emissions help control turbo boosts
torque so here another feature of this
camshaft is that the lobes are staggered
they're not exactly in the same location
you can see here one starts here one
starts over here one is actually larger
than the other by doing this they're
actually able to start this tumble
effect they call that you know on
previous engines there was a intake flap
that created the tumble now they can do
it with the camshaft so this gets the
air stirred up as it's being drawn into
the engine and when they inject the fuel
it actually starts to mix with the fuel
and air it's a really good Adam ization
so you have lower you have lower
emissions better combustion
more power out of his self you know a
lot of benefits to doing that oh this is
Illinois go so if you look it's located
right here yeah okay there are two per
cylinder yeah there's a track here that
this solenoid actually goes into as the
camshaft is turning you can see there's
a switchover point right here as it
switches over it will move the camshaft
one way and then it will change it to a
different lobe on the other side it's
the same exact thing so all they have to
do is act activate actuate the other
Silla note and they'll switch it back so
it's just two solenoids here per
cylinder
tell us about the active suspension uh
here's the silhouette right that on the
base of the shock hmm there's also each
corner has one right there's also a
level sensor here that's the input this
is like a potentiometer that's me or a
digital encoder yeah we've had these for
a number of years with the active
suspension with the TT vehicles while
the Magnetic also has it laughing but Q
sevens with the right and 88 isn't it
yeah so so it's a proven part two proven
part yes and it's been yeah we've had
these for quite some time but this is
what gives the feet the feedback to the
control module to adjust the dampener
here and it's on a real-time basis isn't
it because it's getting direct road
input so this gives the feedback or
collect or the suspension electrically
shows the level shows the level and then
this is the solenoid here which is
actually controlling the damping the
mount the variable damping yeah it's
pretty simple independently controlled
right there's also when we go law to all
four wheels yeah it also has some input
to the canvas which also gets
information from ESP and abs so you know
depending on what type of breaking or if
you're going into a turn or you know
there's a it will also control the
dampening for handling controls as well
now this car the reason for this is
because this car has the the Audi Drive
select and the drive select is also
programmable depending on there's an
individual setting that you can set up
and usually have a Modi mm I there's
also a dynamic setting and there's also
a comfortable setting and
automatic setting so each setting will
feature a different type of dampening
effect